So our goal is to develop
back-end applications with Node
and therefore it's probably a good idea
to get a basic understanding of how the web actually works
behind the scenes, right?
And this is gonna be a really full pack lecture.
And so let's dive right in.
Now, in order to get a better understanding
of how the web actually works,
let's start by asking the question:
What does actually happen each time
that we type a URL into our browser
in order to open up a new webpage?
Or each time that we request data from some API?
Which is actually quite the same
and so let's just focus on a simple website example here.
Well, the most simple answer is that our browser
which is also called a client sends a request
to the server where the webpage is hosted.
And the server will then send back a response,
which is gonna contain the webpage that we just requested.
And this process is called the request-response model
or also the client-server architecture.
And everything that we're gonna talk about
in this section revolves around this fundamental concept.
Okay, but let's now take this one step further
because this is probably not really new for you
at this point, right?
So let's say that we wanna access Google Maps
by writing google.com/maps into our browser as the URL.
And every URL gets an HTTP or HTTPS,
which is for the protocol that will be used
on the connection.
And we're gonna talk about this a bit later in this video.
Then we have the domain name here,
which is google.com in this case,
and also after a slash, the so-called resource
that we're going to access,
and in this case, /maps.
Now what you need to know here is that the domain name
like google.com is not actually the real address
of the server that we are trying to access
but just a nice name that is easy for us to memorize.
So we need a way of kind of converting the domain name
to the real address of the server
and that happens through a DNS.
So DNS stands for Domain Name Server,
which are special servers that are basically
like the phone-books of the internet.
So the first step that happens when we open up a website
is the the browser makes a request to a DNS
and this special server will then simply match
the web address that we typed into the browser
to the server's real IP address.
All right.
And actually this happens
through your internet service provider or ISP
but the complete details don't really matter for us.
What you need to retain from this part
is that the domain is not the real address
and that a DNS will convert it to that real IP address,
which a browser can then call after it being sent back
to our browser.
So this is how the real address looks like,
so it still has the protocol, but then comes the IP address.
And also the port that we accessed on the server.
And the port number is really just to identify
a specific service running on a server
and so you can think of it like a sub-address.
Remember how we listened to port 8000
on our web server when we set it up in the intersection
that is exactly what this port is.
Also please note that the port number
has nothing to do with the Google Maps resource
that we want to access.
That resource will actually be sent over
in the HTTP request as we will see in a moment.
Okay, and this wraps up the first step.
So once we have the real web address,
a TCP socket connection is established
between the browser and the server,
which are now finally connected.
And this connection is typically kept alive
for the entire time it takes to transfer
all the files of the website.
Now, what are our TCP and IP?
Well, TCP is the Transmission Control Protocol
and IP is the Internet Protocol,
and together they are communication protocols
that define exactly how data travels across the web.
So they're basically
the internet's fundamental control system,
because, again, they are the ones who set the rules
about how data moves on the internet.
And don't worry, we'll learn a bit more about TCP/IP
a bit later in this video.
Anyway, now it's time to finally make our request.
And the request that we make is an HTTP request
where HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol.
So after TCP/IP, HTTP is yet another communication protocol.
And by the way, a communication protocol
is simply a system of rules
that allows two or more parties to communicate.
And in the case of HTTP, it's just a protocol
that allows clients and web servers to communicate
by sending requests and response messages
from client to server and back.
Now, a request message will look something like this.
So the beginning of the message is the most important part
called the start line, which contains the HTTP method
that's used in the request,
then the request target and the HTTP version.
So about HTTP methods, there are many available
but the most important ones are get
for simply requesting data, post for sending data
and put and patch to basically modify data.
So you see an HTTP request to the server
is not only for getting data but we can also send data.
All right?
Now please don't worry if all these sounds a bit too much
for you at this point.
We will, of course, use these stuff
throughout the rest of the course,
which is actually the whole reason why I'm telling you this.
Anyway, about the request target,
this is where the server is thought that we want to access
the maps resource in this example.
Remember that?
So we had /maps in our URL and now it's sent
as the target in the HTTP request
so that the server can then figure out what to do with it.
And if this is empty, so if it was just a slash, basically,
then we would be accessing the website's root
which would be just google.com in this example.
Then the next part of the request are the request headers
which is just some information that we send
about the request itself,
and there are tons of different headers available
like what browser is used to make the request,
at what time, the user's language and many, many others.
Finally, in the case we're sending data to the server,
there will also be a request body
containing that data, for example, coming from an HTML form.
So that is the HTTP request.
Now, of course, it's not us developers
who manually write these requests
but it's still extremely important that you understand
what an HTTP request and also a response look like
because you will be working with them a ton, okay?
Also, I want to mention that there's also HTTPS
as you probably know.
And the main difference between HTTP and HTTPS
is that HTTPS is encrypted using TLS or SSL,
which are yet some more protocols
but I'm not gonna bore you with these.
But besides these additional encryption,
the logic between HTTP requests and responses
still applies to HTTPS.
All right, so our request now hits the server,
which will be working on it until it has our website
ready to send back.
And it will send it back using, as you can guess,
an HTTP response.
And the HTTP response message actually looks
quite similar to the request.
So also with a start line, headers and a body.
The start line has, besides the HTTP version,
a status code and a message.
So, basically, to let the client know
whether the request has been successful or not.
This 200, for example, means okay,
and the one that everyone knows is status code 404
which means not found.
And so this is where this 404 code
that you already knew comes from.
Then the response headers or information
about the response itself.
So just like before, and there are a ton available
and we can also actually make up our own headers.
Now, what's different about response headers
is that it's actually the back-end developer like you
who specifies them and sends them back in the response.
All right.
Finally, the last part of the response
is, again, the body, which is actually present
in most responses.
And it's also the developer who specifically sends back
the body in the response.
And we actually already did this back in the intersection
using response.end, remember?
And the body should usually contain the HTML of the website
we requested or, for example, JSON data coming back
from an API or something like that.
So we talked in great detail
about the most important parts here,
which are the HTTP request and the response.
But in our imaginary example, we only just did one request
to google.com and got one response.
However, if it's a website that we're trying to access,
there will be many, many more requests and responses.
And that is because when we do the first request,
all we get back is just the initial HTML file,
that file will then gets scanned for all the assets
that it needs to build the entire website
like JavaScripts, CSS files, image files or other assets.
And for each of these different files,
the browser will then make a new HTTP request to the server.
So, basically, this entire back and forth
between client and server that it just explained
happens for every single file
that is included in the website.
There can, however, be multiple requests and responses
happening at the same time.
But the amount is actually limited
because, otherwise, the connection would start to slow down.
Okay, and then finally, when all the files have arrived,
the website is rendered in the browser
according to the HTML, CSS and JavaScript specifications
that you might already know.
And now, as the final piece of this puzzle,
let's again talk about TCP/IP
and figure out how does request and response data
is actually sent across the web.
So we said before that TCP and IP
are the communication protocols that define
how data travels across the web.
Now, I'm not gonna go into a lot of detail here
but here is what you need to know.
First, the job of TCP is to break out the requests
and responses into thousands of small chunks called packets
before they are set.
Then once they get to their destination,
it will reassemble all the packets
into the original request or response
so that the message arrives at the destination
as quick as possible, which would not be possible
if we sent the website as one big chunk.
So that would be like trying to go
through dance traffic with like the biggest bus
that you can imagine.
So, not a good idea.
Now, at the second part, the job of the IP protocol
is to actually send and route all of these packets
through the internet.
So it ensures that all of them arrive at the destination
that they should go using IP addresses on each packet.
And again, this is just a very broad overview
of what really happens behind the scenes of the web,
because that is actually way too much information
than you actually need in order to become
a great back-end developer.
But I hope that you still found this information useful
and interesting, and also not all too confusing.
Now, in the next video, we will then actually do
some HTTP requests so that you become a bit more familiar
with the protocol.